Kekulé's model of benzene describes the molecule as a ring of six Carbon atoms bonded by alternating double and single bonds, as a result of the differing bond lengths between these two the molecule would form an irregular hexagon. Each carbon atom had a singe hydrogen bonded to it giving the whole molecule the formula $C_6H_6$. 

The enthalpy of hydrogenation of one carbon-carbon double bond is -120 KJ/mol, as Kekulé's model of benzene has three of these the enthalpy of hydrogenation would be -360 KJ/mol as -120 x 3 = -360. The IR spectra of Kekulé's model would give peaks at 1620-1680 from the C=C bond in alkenes, 750-1100 for the C-C bond in alkenes and 2850-2950 for the C-H bonds. 

The predicted values above are not correct when compared to the measurements of actual benzene, with real benzene the enthalpy of hydrogenation is -208KJ/mol instead of -360KJ/mol meaning that benzene is more stable than Kekulé's predictions would imply it is. in addition to this the IR spectrum of benzene is different to that of Kekulé's model, the real IR spectrum does have the C-H peaks at 2850-2950 however instead of the other two it has a series of peaks in a range between 1450 and 1650. Another difference is the shape of the molecule, Kekulé's model is an irregular hexagon where the sides alternate between two lengths, however when X-ray diffraction shows that Benzene forms a perfect hexagon. 

As shown by the differences between Kekulé's predicted measurements and the actual measurements Kekulé's model is incorrect, however the real measurements allow us to piece together the actual makeup of benzene. We know that it is a perfect hexagon meaning that all bond lengths are the same, we also know that it is a rather stable molecule as shown by the enthalpy of hydrogenation. In reality benzene is made up of a single bonded ring of carbons each with a hydrogen atom and a pair of delocalised electrons, the p-orbitals that lost the electrons form a ring on each side of the carbon ring. These rings of delocalised electrons provide stability to the molecule raising the enthalpy of hydrogenation from -360 to -208 KJ/mol. 

