### Electrophilic Substitution 
Benzene's delocalised pi system is an area of high *electron density* so it is susceptible to attacks by electrophiles. 
Unlike alkenes, it does not undergo *addition* reactions, as that would result in losing the stabilisation of the conjugated pi system. Instead it undergoes *substitution* reactions. 
A very *strong activation* energy is needed because the first step of the reaction temporarily breaks the *Conjugated pi system*. 
The electrophile must have a full positive charge (not a partial charge) and in all the substitution reaction it is generated by the action of a metal halide as a catalyst. 

### Reactions of Benzene - summary 
Arenes have an area of high electron density so they react with electrophiles. 
They will not undergo any reactions that result in disruption of the delocalised pi system, so they undergo substitution reactions rather than *addition reactions*. 
All the substitution reactions require a catalyst that acts as a *nucleophile*. This is used to generate the *Electrophile* which must be very strong in order to temporarily disrupt the pi system by *accepting* a pair of electrons. 
During the substitution reaction a *hydrogen* leaves the benzene ring.
This removes a halide ion from the halogen carrier, *neutralises* the catalyst and forms a *hydrogen halide* which is observed as *precipitate*. 
*Chlorination* of benzene is the only reaction which takes place at room temperature, the other substitutions must be *heated*. *Aluminium chloride ($AlCl_3$)* is used as the catalyst for chlorination, alkylation and acylation. Because this reacts violently with water, these reaction must take place under *Controlled* conditions. 
*Iron (III) Bromide ($FeBr_3$)* is used as the catalyst is bromination. 